# Breast Cancer Detection Using Data mining Techniques (RapidMiner Tool)
Breast cancer poses a serious threat to the lives of people and is the second leading cause of the death of women today. Due to the increase in life expectancy, urbanization, and adoption of unknown western lifestyles the incidence of breast cancer is constantly increasing in this developing world. Although there are many treatments to cure breast cancer, these strategies cannot eliminate the majority of cancer that develop in lower and lower-middle class families where breast cancer is diagnosed at a very later stage. In order to improve the diagnosis of breast cancer and survival outcome, early detection remains the cornerstone of breast cancer control.
This research presents a method to detect breast cancer by employing techniques of data mining using RapidMiner Tool . The author carried out an experimental analysis on a dataset to evaluate the performance. The proposed method has produced highly accurate and efficient results when compared to the existing methods.
The dataset is taken from: https://www.kaggle.com/uciml/breast-cancer-wisconsin-data
We focus on the dataset of breast cancer and apply four data mining algorithms to predict the most accurate model for the diagnosis of breast cancer. For the purpose of this research, we have used RapidMiner as the software platform and evaluated the dataset using ANN, Decision Tree, Naïve Bayes, and k-NN classification techniques.
The experimental results demonstrate the superiority of the supervised algorithm — Artificial Neural Network, which achieves a near-optimal performance under various conditions.
You can see detailed blog of "Breast Cancer Detection Using Data mining Techniques" here: https://medium.com/@nimraakram/breast-cancer-detection-using-data-mining-techniques-82d1f282dd69
